[Rafael yelling]
[Marta] Are you okay. Rafael?
[grunts]
Yeah. Just resting a little.
ONE YEAR EARLIER
Go to sleep.
I'll take your night shift.
You can take mine tomorrow.
Thanks. Marta. I owe you one.
[woman] I was watching
the Shell's entrance.
Some people are trying to climb up here.
I wanted to shoot them.
If I were by myself...
That shit pisses me off.
And no one does anything.
Marcela's getting soft.
just like the Council.
In times like these. I miss Ezequiel.
[communicator beeps]
Commander. on my way.
- What is it?
- Marcela. Someone's being interrogated.
[man] At this hour?
[beeping]
What are you doing?
Marcela wants us all in the yard.
Go!
Checking if anyone else is here.
I got in with Luis Carlos' implant.
I know that's illegal.
It all started with my older brother.
His real name is Tiago.
He stole my implant to get in
as an insider for the Cause.
[Marcela]
That's a serious accusation you're making.
UPDATING LIST OF SUSPECTS
CAUSE
RAFAEL - ELISA
[heavy breathing]
Elisa.
I need to sleep.
I have ARU early in the morning.
Sorry for this.
Hey. Are you crazy? What happened?
I'll tell you later. Run.
[beeping]
Shit.
Rafael. What's going on?
Later. Come on.
[shouting] Come on!
Tell me.
My brother ratted us out.
You covered for him. and his fake implant.
- Come on.
- Wait.
Elisa. we have to go now.
[Elisa] Open the gate.
Don't move. Elisa.
Hands where I can see them. Turn around.
Commander. I have...
[grunting]
Give me your ring.
Keep formation.
Now.
Let's go. Elisa. On the floor.
On the floor. Eyes on the floor.
[shouting] Rafael!
[man] Negative. commander.
- Are you okay?
- Don't touch me.
Why did I run away with you?
Now I can't even justify myself.
I know. but it was all my brother's fault.
It was your fault.
This is pointless now.
We need to figure out where to go.
"We"?
That's been over for a long time.
Elisa...
A NETFLIX ORIGINAL SERIES
CHAPTER 03: MEDICINE
Get up. Artur.
Everyone is on their way to the atrium.
Okay.
Aren't you going?
Not even to vote on what will happen?
No. You can tell me later.
Okay. Here.
It's the last one we have. Enjoy.
How are we going to vote?
Against this little Process.
So. we stay until the generator is fixed?
Right.
Come on. guys. Gather around.
Scarves suit you.
[chuckles]
What's that?
Uh...
Golden grass flowers.
They're dry.
But given the Shell's state. right?
Thanks.
[knocking on door]
[Xavier] Elisa.
Elisa.
Michele wants to talk to you. It's urgent.
[Marco] Is everyone here?
[bustling chatter]
We must decide what to do real quick.
And how the Selection can go on.
- Wait. Glória. it can't go on.
- [Glória] It can. and it should.
We've got a grave situation here.
"Grave" are its consequences.
A guy killed himself right here.
- How do you feel?
- Fine.
How about you?
Thanks for saving me.
[Marco] Joana. the sad truth
is that Otávio's death
doesn't change the Shell's state.
We're running out of food.
Numbers are tight.
We can't delay this. not even a day.
You're in no shape to continue.
I know it's a lot to ask...
but I need your help.
We should wait longer.
There's no other choice.
Yes. And keep fixing the machines.
give it a few days.
Not a bad idea. My brother's
still shaken by what happened.
- Some time will be good for all.
- [Glória] It'll only get worse.
- He'll only get hungrier.
- That's right.
- [all] Yes.
- Guys. we can't argue against facts.
The Selection must continue.
Ah. really?
And who's going to carry it out?
Michele's in the infirmary.
It won't be you. right?
[Elisa] Our next test will be in duos.
I've talked to the Founder.
I'm carrying it out.
Your task is very simple.
Just tell me where north is.
There's a compass under this blanket
showing the answer.
Of course you can't look.
or open the window.
This will test your observation skills.
and how well you know the Shell.
You have two minutes.
Right.
Let's do this.
The sun rises in the east.
If we know which way's east.
we know which way's north.
I remember where the sun rises
when we enter the Shell.
We just need to figure out the path
from the entrance to here.
But where are we?
[Artur] I don't know.
Must be 20 rooms in the Shell
like this one.
[Rafael] They keep things here.
round things
and this big.
Water. maybe.
No. Those are oil marks.
- This is the Shell's oil room.
- Good one. kid.
If this is the oil room.
we just need to trace our way...
[Artur grunts]
Artur. what's wrong?
Are you okay? What's going on?
What's going on?
Are you okay? Stop the clock. he's sick.
- [Elisa] I can't.
- What do you mean?
No. no. it's fine. I'm fine.
I'm fine. Okay. Oil room.
I think it's on the second floor.
third door past the hallway
leading to the greenhouse.
- [Rafael] Are you feeling better?
- Yes.
Okay. right.
When we pass the atrium. at the entrance.
the sun rises to our right.
We go in. then up the stairs.
then take the left hallway.
turn left and get to the other stairs.
- Shit.
- [Artur] What?
It's a spiral staircase.
How many turns does it have?
Two and a half? I don't know.
- I don't know.
- Me neither.
Think. Rafael...
[Elisa] Time's running out.
Shit. I can't remember.
Try thinking. too. Artur.
If it's two turns... I can't think.
I can't think. I can't.
What are you doing?
Huh?
I think I figured it out.
But how?
The north is that way.
[Rafael] Fuck. yeah.
Congratulations.
How did you figure it out?
That section of the wall
is warmer than the others.
The window was probably open before this.
so. the sun hit there.
If we know where the sun rises.
the rest is simple.
[chuckles] You're really learning from me.
Yeah. right. I'm learning from you. huh?
You did great. bro. You rocked. bro.
What's wrong?
Easy. Take deep breaths.
- I'll call for help. Elisa!
- No. no. no. I'm fine.
Are you insane?
She's doing the test.
It's just my stomach.
Must've been that shit you gave me to eat.
[man] No fucking way.
I kind of pointed to the right way.
- [Elisa] No. you didn't.
- I'm not leaving.
We all voted in favor of the Selection.
But not with her in command.
It isn't my fault she doesn't like me.
Are you serious?
You were the last to be tested.
Everyone else left peacefully.
You must go.
You're not the boss.
You have no authority here.
[Michele] Yes. she does.
I asked her to carry out the test.
because I trust her.
If she says you're out. then you're out.
[door opens]
Thanks. Elisa.
I'm feeling a lot better.
I'll be carrying out the next test.
Since you saved her life.
she could just let us pass already.
It's more complicated than you think.
Did you two talk after that?
No. And I don't want to.
Hello?
Anyone there?
Michele?
No. it's Elisa. Who's there?
This is André.
Are you with Michele?
No.
Are you out of the RTC? Did they free you?
It's all clear. at last.
Elisa. what's going on in the Shell. huh?
The implants have been disconnected.
people are leaving...
We're well aware of this.
It seems the Shell is hanging by a thread.
No. Michele's carrying out a Selection.
to reduce the number of people here.
A Selection?
It's like a Process. but different.
How about you? Is everything okay?
Why are you calling us?
I was wondering if there's a way
to explain myself.
It happened so fast.
What do you want. Elisa?
I want to go back to the Offshore.
I'm not ready for what's happening here.
- I don't know why I'm here.
- I see.
You miss the comfort.
You're tired of living in poverty.
No. I just don't know why I'm here.
I'm innocent.
I have the right to explain myself.
You've got no rights.
You covered for a traitor.
I didn't do a thing.
I have nothing to do with the Cause.
Marcela doesn't forgive Offshore traitors.
But clearly they've forgiven you.
And you did much worse.
I did "much worse" for the Offshore.
not against it.
If I were you.
I'd get used to the idea
of living there forever.
[Rafael] Artur.
Have you seen my brother?
Artur!
Xavier. I haven't seen my brother
in a while. Have you?
- No.
- Shit.
Artur!
ONE YEAR EARLIER
[clattering]
Fuck.
Shit.
Shh. Not a peep.
- Tiago...
- [woman] Who's there?
[Rafael] Mom.
Rafael.
Rafael. come here. hurry.
What?
How dare you come back?
Off to your room.
I don't want you to be a part of this.
I'm only here to talk.
I just want some water and food.
You almost made
your brothers kill themselves.
One trying to rip off the other's implant.
Now our family is marked.
You've ruined our lives.
- Me?
- Yes. you.
Of course. it's all my fault. huh?
I was the one who raised this family.
I was the one who raised us.
just to pass the Process. right?
You know what?
If no one here passes it. fuck it.
- Shut up!
- [Rafael] No. you shut up.
You did the same.
and ratted me out to Marcela.
What did she offer you. you piece of shit?
You don't know what you're talking about!
- Don't I?
- Get out of my sight.
[woman] Help!
Guards! Division!
There's a fugitive here!
Guards. help!
Help!
[door slams]
[heavy breathing]
[metal clanging nearby]
Artur?
What are you doing here?
Let's go.
I'm coming with you.
[chuckles]
What?
- Man. I don't need this now.
- I mean it. Tiago.
I mean it. I can't live with Mom anymore.
She keeps insulting me
and forcing me to work.
- You know how it is. I can't take it.
- Yes. I know.
But I'm a fugitive now.
It's too dangerous to be with me.
Take care.
Can't be worse than staying in that house.
Listen. I can barely look after myself.
much less you.
You can't be worse than Mom. Please.
Artur.
Artur?
What are you doing here?
- Are you okay?
- I'm okay.
- It's fine.
- What's going on?
- Huh?
- It's nothing.
- It's fine.
- You're burning up.
I'll take you to the infirmary.
[shouts]
Let me see that arm.
Artur. let me see it. please.
Who did this to you?
Huh?
Who was it? Tell me. I'm going to kill...
I did it.
What do you mean. you did it?
You cut your arm on purpose?
The implant turns off
if it's outside our body.
Rafael told me that. The real Rafael.
What have you done?
You inserted the implant in your arm?
I had it in my pocket.
and tried to keep it here.
But that was it.
Why did you do that?
Artur. why?
I want to go to the Offshore.
- I'll take you to the infirmary.
- Please don't.
You'll end up dying with that.
I have to take you.
Please don't tell anybody.
They'll kick me out.
I'm begging you. Don't tell anyone.
Please.
It had to be you.
I just needed some meds.
I'm feeling a little sick.
Then why did you sneak in?
Tell me. Rafael.
What are you hiding?
Nothing. I'm not hiding anything.
I thought you'd change.
at least in that respect.
That you'd stop lying.
I swear. it's...
Elisa. I need you to trust me on this.
You've lost that privilege long ago.
It's my brother.
He's gotten a lot worse.
Artur.
It's okay. Come here.
It'll be okay. you hear?
[Artur grunting]
You shouldn't have done that.
You shouldn't have told her.
We need to remove his implant.
Then put it back in my ear.
I want to go to the Offshore.
You're not going anywhere if you're dead.
If the infection spreads
to your bloodstream...
Hold him tight.
Hold him.
No. no. no. I don't want to.
[Artur grunting]
[Artur shrieking]
[Elisa] Calm down.
[heavy breathing]
It's out.
No.
Forget it. You inserted it wrong.
No. That can't be. It's a lie.
Easy. It'll be all right.
Everything is all right.
Can I have a word with you outside?
Come here.
Like this. Here.
Here.
I'll be right back.
I need to tell this to Michele.
No. no. no. Don't do that. Elisa.
The implant wasn't even on.
He cheated.
He will be eliminated.
He has nowhere to go.
Neither do I. and it's all your fault.
because I kept one of your secrets.
- I'm not lying for you anymore.
- I know. Elisa.
I don't deserve this.
But this is about him.
He's different.
He's never done anything wrong. Never.
You've been banned
from where you lived. right?
Do you want him to face that. too?
[Marcela] They're carrying out a Process?
That's what I figured.
[chuckles] This isn't going to work.
What if it does?
If they reduce the people there.
the Shell might survive.
- Elisa is desperate there...
- So?
I won't get involved.
The Shell's downfall must seem natural
to the Council.
Fuck them. They don't know shit.
We know way more about the Offshore
than all of those geezers.
Enough. André.
I convinced the Council
to get you out of that cube.
I can easily talk them
into getting you back there.
So. do not question me.
Are we clear?
Yes. ma'am.
For the next test.
I'll be splitting you up in trios.
Rafael. you're with Natália and Marco.
As for you. Artur...
You'll be in another group.
with Glória and Joana.
Come this way.
[whispers]
Told you Elisa wouldn't rat you out.
Michele. can I watch it?
Of course.
Will this test get a lot of people out?
One third of them.
[Michele over P.A] Here's the test:
Each trio should think of a criterion
to eliminate someone from the next room.
We all have flaws.
but it's up to you to decide
which flaw is not acceptable right now.
Think long and hard about it.
as you'll be responsible
for eliminating someone.
Once you've chosen the criterion.
write it down on paper.
You have three minutes.
[timer beeps]
I think we should eliminate Glória.
- Glória?
- Yeah.
[chuckles]
Based on what. Rafael?
I don't trust her.
She was with the Church. Deep down.
she must still believe in the Offshore.
But I trust her.
She's the one I trust the most.
She's helped the Shell.
You mean. she helped you.
You just don't want
to lose your son's babysitter.
How about you. Natália?
You've been here the longest.
Do you agree with Rafael?
I don't know if trust is a criterion here.
Michele might not like it.
We can all end up out of here.
Don't you see it?
Glória pretends she cares about us.
but only cares about herself.
Listen. Artur...
I know you're a good boy.
and you help around the Shell.
But you've got to admit.
your brother doesn't.
He's selfish. drinks all day.
doesn't work.
And he's weighing you down here.
[laughs]
What's so funny?
I agree about Rafael. but Marco's worse.
[Glória] Marco works hard. Joana.
He's honest.
He cares for his son. He helps the Shell.
[Joana] You don't know him.
You don't know what he did in the Process.
I do. Joana.
But the Shell is a second chance
for people.
And Marco's taking that chance.
with all he's got. unlike Rafael.
Marco's tried to kill me.
and he can kill anyone
who gets in his way.
You might buy into his Mr. Right act.
but he doesn't fool me.
He's a murderer.
That's a good criterion.
Ouch. Joana.
I disagree with eliminating Marco.
We should eliminate Rafael.
We're doing this Selection
to save the Shell.
The criterion should be
about contributing to the Shell.
I guess it's up to you. Artur.
You'll break the tie.
I think we should eliminate Artur.
I trust Glória. and even Joana. way more
to face the challenges
the Shell will be up against.
Yeah.
He's too young.
"Too young"?
Wow. that's some criterion.
Congratulations.
He's a hard worker. yes.
but if things go south...
You said he was shaken up.
Plus he has a family to go home to.
That isn't true. Natália.
He told me himself.
He has a mother and siblings...
I'm the only family he has left.
Then maybe you should leave with him.
Let's eliminate the youngest.
You're only doing this to protect Glória.
That's why.
And you. to protect Joana.
And you. to protect your brother.
The youngest one goes.
[Joana] Then it's settled.
The criterion is being a murderer. Marco.
[Marco] Do you agree. Natália?
- Natália. please. Don't.
- I'm sorry.
This can't be the criterion. Marco.
We need to talk!
[Michele] Time's up.
[shouts] Shit!
[Michele on P.A] The test isn't over yet.
Otávio would always complain about others.
He'd say they were inept.
In the end. he admitted.
that's what he thought about himself.
We all have a dark side.
But we only see it reflected in others.
You didn't choose a criterion
for the room next to yours.
You chose a criterion for yourselves.
What?
[Glória]
So. the criterion is "being a murderer."
I remember a few posters. Joana.
Back in the Inland.
About a kid's killer.
The youngest.
How old are you. Natália?
[Michele] Rafael and Marco...
you've passed.
Artur and Glória. you've passed.
Michele...
I was hoping I wouldn't
have to tell you this. but I do.
So. Artur?
- I passed.
- Way to go. dude.
- Glória. where's Artur?
- Over there.
- Did he pass?
- Yes.
Did you pass?
[Glória laughing]
[laughing]
Come.
Let's get out of here.
[Michele] Artur?
Artur.
You may come back
when the Shell is back to normal.
Joana. I'm sorry.
I really wanted you to pass.
but I had to be impartial and fair.
At least Ezequiel knew
there was no justice in the Process.
He manipulated everything to his liking.
Unlike you.
You keep hiding behind your "justice."
Saying "we have a dark side."
and you're "revealing it."
I'll have you know it was because
of your Selection that Otávio lost it.
Michele. Did you see my brother?
I can't find him.
I had to send him away.
What?
- Glória told me he had passed.
- He still had his implant. I'm sorry.
Michele...
You can't do this.
I know. but Elisa came to talk to me.
and I can't ignore that.
- He'll be all alone out there.
- I had no choice.
Artur!
Artur. wait! Come back.
Let's talk to Michele.
She'll understand. Please.
Get out! Stay away from me!
I'm going with you.
- Why?
- I'm going.
I'm your brother.
So. let's go back together.
I'll take care of you. Promise.
- Take care of me?
- Yes.
The only thing I asked you was.
please don't tell her.
I had a reason to do it.
I had to tell her the truth.
And what does that have to do with me?
Now I have no more Shell. no Process.
I don't have anything.
Look at me.
We're in this together.
Everything they told me
about you was true.
You're no good.
I thought you were an asshole
for the Cause.
but that was just an excuse.
You're just an asshole.
[knocking on door]
You wanted revenge on me?
You did it.
Congratulations.
- How could you do this to him?
- I did what was right.
Mm.
You could've kept a secret.
Last time I lied for you.
I had to leave the Offshore.
I did the right thing. Elisa!
I told you the truth. I didn't lie to you.
And that's how you repay me?
Huh?
You really don't get it. do you?
Lying or telling the truth...
you only think about yourself.
No one but yourself.